# CS255 - Systems Analysis and Design - Reflection Journal

**Briefly summarize the DriverPass project. Who was the client? What type of system did they want you to design?**

DriverPass (ran by the boss, Liam) is a company invested in making it easier for more people to pass their DMV driving tests. They provide practice tests and in-person lessons for customers in a variety of packages, all facilitated by the DriverPass application system. The application was designed to be a core piece of their product where the customer is able to interact with the company's services and schedule lessons. The application required live-network access, a database to store and log interactions across the system, and role's to determine which accounts had accessto which features.

**What did you do particularly well?**

I was able to provide a strong security layer to my design in simple ways that do not require large processing overhead. With authentication through ``usedID`` on database actions and simple brute force lock-out attempts, the system is secure without large processing or maintentance overhead on behalf of the DriverPass company. My strongest skill while working on this project was keeping a dense, but organized, collection of notes on the project throughout the course. Whenever I needed to build on the DriverPass system, I made sure I had resources around to keep the vision consistant and not leave out crucial steps or features along the way.

**If you could choose one part of your work on these documents to revise, what would you pick? How would you improve it?**

If I were to revise my project now, I would spend more time on the account creation process and validation of entry from the user. Checks for things like SQL injections and more could be potential promblems if not address properly and more detail could be provided there. I also needed to dig deeper into specific hardware requirements and SaaS providers who could complete the system's design in a more foolproof way. I know that solutions exist, but writing down a set of compatible and cohesive systems in steps would have created a more beneficial document and plan.

**How did you interpret the user’s needs and implement them into your system design? Why is it so important to consider the user’s needs when designing?**

To implement the user's needs, I start by keeping detailed notes on the business or porject in general. Its goals and ideals will best reflect the experience they want to provide to the user. For the DriverPass project, I wrote extensive and organized notes on the interview from the early part of the coursework. Those notes were used to imagine the user's experience, what was necessary for it to occur safetly and efficiently, and to understand what the end goal of the system truly is. For DriverPass, trying to make passing driving tests feel easier, it was very important that the features that the company wanted to include all felt as frictionless and intuinitive as possible for all users, especially the customers! As I worked later on in the project, those notes were an essential resource to make sure the goals stayed congruent with the needs of DriverPass as an organization, which extended to its users by offering a smooth application experience that feels natural and safe.

**How do you approach designing software? What techniques or strategies would you use in the future to analyze and design a system?**

When I design software, I usually look at it from a use case perspective first. I try to see what problem the software is trying to solve and make sure to keep that problem in mind as I design solutions from different angles andfor different functional requirments. After delving deeper into the process of system analysis and design this course, I would also make sure that I am constantly approaching the problem from the perspective of the business and stakeholders, along with ensuring that I can simplify the process enough that any included, but nontechnical, parties can see the value in my work and the systems that I propose. Understanding how to bridge the gap from technical understanding to nontechnical communication is an essential skill that keeps the entire team and process aligned with each other. Without clear and accurate documentation, communication, and many times even visual representation, a project's goals may seem ambiguious or confusing. If the requirements and goals are not clear, it is more likely that the team will have a less focused output. Consolidating that to a strong vision of the stakeholder's goals is critical in designing and producing software that meets the needs of the customer and the user.
